# 1st Meeting

Thank you all for joining and working on the project :)

I will try to provide a short summary of the 1st guild pgREST meeting (held at `25/06/2021 - 07:00 UTC`), both for logging purposes and for those who were not able to attend. 

### Participants:

- Homer
- Ola
- Markus
- Priyank
- Damjan


## Meeting Structure
As this was the first meeting, at the start we discussed about the meeting structure. In general, we agreed to something like listed below, but this can definitely change in the future:
1) 2-liner (60s) round the table stand-ups by everyone to sync up on what they were doing / are planning to do / mention struggles etc. This itself often sparks discussions
2) going through the Trello board tasks with the intention of discussing and possbily assigning them to individuals / smaller groups (maybe 1-2-3 people choose to work together on a single task)


## Stand-ups
We then proceeded to give a status of where we are individually in terms of what's been done, a summary below:
- Homer, Ola, Markus, Priyank and Damjan have all set up their dbsync + pgrest endpoints against guild network and added to topology.
- Ola laid down the groundwork for CNTools to integrate with API endpoints created so far.
- Markus has created the systemd scripts and will add them soon to repo
- Damjan is tracking live stake query that includes payment + stake address, but is awaiting fix on dbsync for pool refund (contextual reserves -> account) , also need to validate reserve -> MIR certs
- Priyank created initial haproxy settings for polls done, need to complete agent based on design finalisation

## Main discussion points

  1) Directory structure on the repo -> General agreement is to have anything related to db-sync/postgREST separated from the current cnode-helper-scripts directory. We can finalise the end locations of files a bit later, for now intent should be to simply add them all to /files/dbsync folder. `prereqs.sh` addendum can be done once artifacts are finalised (added a Trello ticket for tracking).

1) DNS/haproxy configurations:

    We have two options:

        a) controlled approach for endpoints - wherein there is a layer of haproxy that will load balance and ensure tip being in sync for individual providers (individuals can provide haproxy OR pgrest instances)

        b) completely decentralised - each client to maintain haproxy endpoint, and fails over to other node if its not up to recent tip

    I think that in general, it was agreed to use a hybrid approach. Details are captured in diagram at https://t.me/c/1499031483/335.

    DNS endpoint can be reserved post initial testing of haproxy-agent against mainnet nodes.

2) Internal monitoring system

    This would be important and useful and has not been mentioned before this meeting (as far as I know). Basically, a system for monitoring all of our instances together and also handling alerts. Not only for ensuring good quality of service, but also for logging and inspection of short- and long-term trends to better understand what's happening. A ticket is added to trello board

## Next meeting

All in all, I think we saw that there is need for these meetings as there are a lot of things to discuss and new ideas come up (like the monitoring system). We went for over an hour (~1h15min) and still didn't have enough time to go through the board, we basically only touched the DNS/haproxy part of the board. This tells me that we are in a stage where more frequent meetings are required, weekly instead of biweekly, as we are in the initial stage and it's important to build things right from the start rather than having to refactor later on. With that, the participants in general agreed to another meeting next week, but this will be confirmed in the TG chat and the times can be discussed then.