# 3rd Meeting

Thank you all for joining and working on the project :smile:

Below is a short summary of the 3rd guild pgREST meeting (held on `09/07/2021 - 07:00 UTC`), both for logging purposes and for those who were not able to attend.

### Participants:

- Homer
- Ola
- Priyank
- Damjan
- Redoracle

### Deployment scripts

Ola added automatic deployment of services to the scripts last week. We added new tasks on [Trello ticket](https://trello.com/c/euQDYUce/20-enhancements-to-setup-script), including flags for multiple networks (guild, testnet, mainnet), haproxy service dynamically creating hosts and doc updates. Overall, the script works well with some manual interaction still required at the moment.

### Supported Networks

Just for the record here, a 16GB (or even 8GB) instance is enough to support both testnet and guild networks.

### db-sync versioning

We agreed to use the `10.1.x` version which is not yet released but close to it. This version does require Alonzo config and hash to be in the node's `config.json`. This has to be done manually and the files are available at (https://hydra.iohk.io/job/Cardano/cardano-node/cardano-deployment/latest-finished/download/1/index.html). Once fully released, all members should rebuild the released version to ensure each instance is running the same code.

### Monitoring System

Priyank started setting up the monitoring on his instance which can then easily be switched to a separate monitoring instance. We agreed to use Prometheus / Grafana combo for data source / visualisation. We'll probably need to create some custom archiving of data to keep it long term as Prometheus stores only the last 30 days of data.

### Next meeting

We would like to make Friday @ 07:00 UTC the standard time and keep meetings at weekly frequency. A poll will still be created for next weeks, but if there are no objections / requests for switching the time around (which we have not had so far) we can go ahead with the making Friday the standard with polls no longer required and only reminders / Google invites sent every week.
