# 4th Meeting

Thank you all for joining and working on the project :smile:

Below is a short summary of the 4th guild pgREST meeting (held at `15/07/2021 - 07:00 UTC`), both for logging purposes and for those who were not able to attend.

### Participants:

- Homer
- Ola
- Paddy
- Priyank
- Damjan

### Introduction for new joiner - Paddy

- from Shamrock stake pool / [poolpeak](https://poolpeek.com/)
- project could be helpful for pool peak
- Paddy will probably run an individual instance

### Problems

- there is a problem with extremely high CPU usage haproxy
- live stake query has multiple variations, and we need to figure out what is the correct one

### Action Items

- Everyone should add monitoring to their instances
- restructure RPC query files (separate metadata in `<query>.json` and sql in `<query>.sql`), also remove `get_` prefix
- Add new queries from the list
- fix haproxy CPU usage (use `nbthreads` in config)
- switch to `http` backends
- gather multiple variations of the live stake query and ask Erik for clarification on which one is correct
