# Mithril Overview

[Mithril Networks](https://mithril.network/docs) provide the ability to download and bootstrap cardano nodes via snapshots of the the Cardano blockchain. This is a great way to speed up the process of syncing a new node, especially for stake pool operators. The tools provided by Guild Operators are designed to facilitate the ease of use
in setting up and managing the:

- [Mithril Client](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/mithril-network/client) to
download a snapshot for the given network the node is attached to via the
[mithril-client.sh](../Scripts/mithril-client.md) script.
- [Mithril Signer](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/mithril-network/signer) to
participate in the creation of stake based singatures of snapshots via the
[mithril-signer.sh](../Scripts/mithril-signer.md) script.
- Squid Mithril Relay to provide a relay for submitting the snapshots signatures to a
Mithril Aggregator, as described in [Run a Mithril signer as an
SPO](https://mithril.network/doc/manual/getting-started/run-signer-node) documentation
via the [mithril-relay.sh](../Scripts/mithril-relay.md) script.


The `env` file contains a new environment variable `MITHRIL_DOWNLOAD` that when enabled
allows the `cnode.sh` script to automatically download the latest Mithril snapshot if
the local `db` directory is empty. This is useful for new nodes that need to be 
bootstrapped with the latest snapshot to avoid synchronizing the entire blockchain
from scratch. While also providing a high level of trust that the snapshot is valid
since it is signed by multiple pool operators.

## Architecture

The architecture for Mithril Networks is described in detail at [Mithril network
architecture](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/mithril-network/architecture) by
CF/IOHK. However the architecture suggested and supported by the Guild Operators tools
is not identical to the upstream documentation in that we provide a more simplified
approach to the setup and management of the Mithril Network components and tools that
allow setting up a Squid Mithril relays and an Nginx loadbalancer (aka sidecar) local to
the Mithril signer. The Nginx sidecar provides the ability to loadbalance requests to
multiple Squid based Mithril Relays running on each of the SPO's Cardano Relay nodes.

### Single Relay Architecture

For SPO's who only have a single Cardano relay node, an Squid based Mithril relay can be
run on the same node as the Cardano relay. This can be used by the Mithril signer to
submit the snapshot signatures to the Mithril Aggregator.

![Single Cardano Relay](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cardano-community/guild-operators/images/mithril_single_relay.png)

### Multi Relay Architecture

For SPO's who have multiple Cardano relay nodes, a Nginx relay sidecar can be run on the
Block Producer and load balance requests over mutliple Cardano relay nodes, each running
its own Nginx Mithril relay to pass the signature along to the Mithril aggregator. This
can be used to avoid a single point of failure in case a Relay server is offline for any
reason. This provides high availability for the Mithril signer through multiple relays
as long as the local Nginx Mithril relay is running on the same server as the Cardano
Block Producer node.

![Multi Cardano Relay](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cardano-community/guild-operators/images/mithril_multi_relay.png)

## Installation

The installation of the Mithril tools is automated via `guild-deploy.sh`. To participate
in a Mithril network include the `-s m` flag which will install the Mithril Client and
Mithril Signer release binaries to `"${HOME}"/.local/bin`.

```bash
guild-deploy.sh -s m
```


### Bootstrapping a node using Mithril Client

The Mithril client is used to download a snapshot of the Cardano blockchain from a
Mithril Aggregator. The snapshot is then used to bootstrap a new Cardano node. The
Mithril client can be used to download the latest snapshot, list all available
snapshots, or show details of a specific snapshot.

To bootstrap a Cardano node using the Mithril client, follow these steps:

1. **Setup the Cardano Node:** Use the guild tools to setup the Cardano node, either by
building the binaries or using pre-compiled binaries. Follow the instructions in the
[guild-operators documentation](https://cardano-community.github.io/guild-operators/Build/node-cli/).

2. **Create the Mithril environment file:** Run the script with the `environment setup`
command. This will create a new `mithril.env` file with all the necessary environment
variables for the Mithril client.

   ```bash
   ./mithril-client.sh environment setup
   ```

3. **Download the latest Mithril snapshot:** Once the environment file is set up, you
can download the latest Mithril snapshot by running the script with the `snapshot
download` command. This snapshot contains the latest state of the Cardano blockchain db
from a Mithril Aggregator.

   ```bash
   ./mithril-client.sh snapshot download
   ```

### Participating in Mithril Network

The Mithril signer is used to participate in the creation of stake based signatures of
snapshots. The Mithril signer can be used to sign a snapshots. The signed snapshot is
then submitted to a Mithril Aggregator, via a Squid based Mithril Relay.

The first step to participate in the Mithril network is to deploy your Squid based
Mithril Relays. The Mithril relay is used to provide a private and highly available
network for submitting the snapshots to a Mithril Aggregator.

#### Deploying the Squid Mithril Relay

To deploy your Squid based Mithril Relays with your Cardano relay node, follow these
steps:

1. **Deploy the Squid Mithril Relay:** Run the `mithril-relay.sh` script:

   1. Use the `-d` flag to deploy the Squid Mithril Relay.
   2. Provide the IP address of your Block Producer when prompted to secure
      the Mithril Relay to only accept traffic from your Block Producer.
   3. Optionally provide the relays listening port when prompted to use a port
      other than the default 3132, or just press enter to use the default.
   4. Create the appropriate firewall rule to allow traffic from your Block
      Producer to the Mithril Relay.

   ```bash
   ./mithril-relay.sh -d

   Installing squid proxy
   Enter the IP address of your Block Producer: 1.2.3.4
   Enter the relays listening port (press Enter to use default 3132):
   Using port 3132 for relays listening port.
   Create the appropriate firewall rule: sudo ufw allow from 1.2.3.4 to any port 3132 proto tcp
   ```

   5. Enable the Systemd Squid Mithril Relay service to start on boot.

   ```bash
      sudo systemctl enable --now squid
   ```

2. **Repeat the process for each of your Cardano relay nodes.**

#### Deploying the Mithril Signer

##### Mithril Signer with Single Relay

1. **Deploy the Mithril Signer:** Run the `mithril-signer.sh` script:

   1. Use the `-u` flag to update the `mithril.env` file with the Mithril
      Signer environment variables.
   2. Provide the IP address of your Mithril Relay when prompted.
   3. Optionally provide the relays listening port when prompted to use a port.

      ```bash
        ./mithril-signer.sh -u
        Enter the IP address of the relay endpoint: 4.5.6.7
        Enter the port of the relay endpoint (press Enter to use default 3132):
        Using RELAY_ENDPOINT=4.5.6.7:3132 for the Mithril signer relay endpoint.
      ```

   4. Use the `-d` flag to deploy the Mithril Signer.

      ```bash
        ./mithril-signer.sh -d
        Creating cnode-mithril-signer systemd service environment file..
        Mithril signer service successfully deployed
      ```

   5. Enable the Systemd service to start the Mithril Signer on boot.

      ```bash
        sudo systemctl enable cnode-mithril-signer
      ```

##### Mithril Signer with Multi Relay

1. **Deploy the Nginx sidecar loadbalancer:** Run the `mithril-relay.sh` script:

   1. Use the `-l` flag to deploy the Nginx Mithril Relay.
   2. Provide the IP address of your Block Producer when prompted to secure
      the Mithril Relay to only accept traffic from your Block Producer.
   3. Optionally provide the relays listening port when prompted to use a port
      other than the default 3132, or just press enter to use the default.
   4. Create the appropriate firewall rule to allow traffic from your Block
      Producer to the Mithril Relay.

      ```bash
      ./mithril-relay.sh -d

      nInstalling nginx load balancer
      Enter the IP address of a relay: 4.5.6.7
      Are there more relays? (y/n) y
      Enter the IP address of a relay: 8.9.10.11
      Are there more relays? (y/n) n
      Enter the IP address of the load balancer (press Enter to use default 127.0.0.1):
      Using IP address 127.0.0.1 for the load balancer configuration.
      Enter the relays listening port (press Enter to use default 3132):
      Using port 3132 for relays listening port.
      Starting Mithril relay sidecar (nginx load balancer)
      ```

   5. Enable the Systemd Nginx Mithril Relay service to start on boot.

      ```bash
      sudo systemctl enable --now nginx
      ```

2. **Deploy the Mithril Signer:** Run the `mithril-signer.sh` script:

   1. Use the `-u` flag to update the `mithril.env` file with the Mithril
      Signer environment variables.
   2. Provide the IP address of your Mithril Relay when prompted.
   3. Optionally provide the relays listening port when prompted to use a port.

      ```bash
          ./mithril-signer.sh -u
          Enter the IP address of the relay endpoint: 127.0.0.1
          Enter the port of the relay endpoint (press Enter to use default 3132):
          Using RELAY_ENDPOINT=127.0.0.1:3132 for the Mithril signer relay endpoint.
      ```

   4. Use the `-d` flag to deploy the Mithril Signer.

      ```bash
          ./mithril-signer.sh -d
          Creating cnode-mithril-signer systemd service environment file..
          Mithril signer service successfully deployed
      ```

   5. Enable the Systemd service to start the Mithril Signer on boot.

      ```bash
          sudo systemctl enable cnode-mithril-signer
      ```
